{Cross-Body Crunch,strength,abdominals,body_only,intermediate,Lie flat on your back and bend your knees about 60 degrees. Keep your feet flat on the floor and place your hands loosely behind your head. This will be your starting position. Now curl up and bring your right elbow and shoulder across your body while bring your left knee in toward your left shoulder at the same time. Reach with your elbow and try to touch your knee. Exhale as you perform this movement. Tip: Try to bring your shoulder up towards your knee rather than just your elbow and remember that the key is to contract the abs as you perform the movement; not just to move the elbow. Now go back down to the starting position as you inhale and repeat with the left elbow and the right knee. Continue alternating in this manner until all prescribed repetitions are done.  Variation: You can also do all of your repetitions for one side and then switch to the other side.}
,{Single-arm high-cable side bend,strength,abdominals,cable,intermediate,Connect a standard handle to a tower. Move cable to highest pulley position. Stand with side to cable. With one hand, reach up and grab handle with underhand grip. Pull down cable until elbow touches your side and the handle is by your shoulder. Position feet hip-width apart. Place free hand on hip to help gauge pivot point. Keep arm in static position. Contract oblique to bring the weight down in a side crunch. Once you reach maximum contraction, slowly release the weight to the starting position. The weight stack should never be unloaded in a resting position. The aim is constant tension during the set. Repeat to failure. Then, reposition and repeat the same series of movements on the opposite side.  Tip: Keep your arm tucked in tight to your side; don’t move it. This technique will ensure the weight is isolated directly to the obliques and not your biceps or shoulder.}
,{Elbow-to-knee crunch,strength,abdominals,body_only,intermediate,Lie on the floor, crossing your right leg across your bent left knee. Clasp your hands behind your head, beginning with your shoulder blades on the ground. This will be your starting position. Perform the motion by flexing the spine and rotating your torso to bring the left elbow to the right knee. Return to the starting position and repeat the movement for the desired number of repetitions before switching sides.}
,{Decline Crunch,strength,abdominals,body_only,intermediate,Secure your legs at the end of the decline bench and lie down. Now place your hands lightly on either side of your head keeping your elbows in. Tip: Don't lock your fingers behind your head. While pushing the small of your back down in the bench to better isolate your abdominal muscles, begin to roll your shoulders off it. Continue to push down as hard as you can with your lower back as you contract your abdominals and exhale. Your shoulders should come up off the bench only about four inches, and your lower back should remain on the bench. At the top of the movement, contract your abdominals hard and keep the contraction for a second. Tip: Focus on slow, controlled movement - don't cheat yourself by using momentum. After the one second contraction, begin to come down slowly again to the starting position as you inhale. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.  Variations: There are many variations for the crunch. You can perform the exercise with weights, or on top of an exercise ball or on a flat bench.}
,{Hanging toes-to-bar,strength,abdominals,body_only,intermediate,Hang from a chin-up bar with your legs and feet together using an overhand grip (palms facing away from you) that is slightly wider than shoulder width. Tip: You may use wrist wraps in order to facilitate holding on to the bar. Now bend your knees at a 90 degree angle and bring the upper legs forward so that the calves are perpendicular to the floor while the thighs remain parallel to it. This will be your starting position. Pull your legs up as you exhale until you almost touch your shins with the bar above you. Tip: Try to straighten your legs as much as possible while at the top. Lower your legs as slowly as possible until you reach the starting position. Tip: Avoid swinging and using momentum at all times. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.  Variations: You can perform this exercise with ankle weights in order to make it more challenging.}
,{Kneeling cable oblique crunch,strength,abdominals,cable,intermediate,Connect a rope attachment to a high pulley cable and position the mat on the floor in front of you. Take the rope with both hands and kneel approximately 1-2 feet from the column. Position the rope behind your head; your hands being next to your ears. This will be your starting position. Keeping your hands in place, pull the rope downward in a crunching motion. As you flex the spine, twist to bring your elbow to the opposite knee. Pause briefly at the bottom of the motion, and then return to the starting position.}
,{Hanging Oblique Knee Raise,strength,abdominals,body_only,intermediate,Take a grip on pull-ups bars; hang with your knees together and your body straight. This will be your starting position. Initiate the movement by flexing the hips and knees, drawing the legs up. Pull the knees up into one side, going above 90 degrees at the hip. Avoid any swinging, performing the exercise with control. Return to the starting position and then perform the movement to the other side. Continue alternating until the set in complete.}
,{Dumbbell suitcase crunch,strength,abdominals,medicine_ball,intermediate,Begin by lying on your back on the ground. Your legs should be straight and your arms extended behind your head holding a medicine ball. This will be your starting position. To perform the movement, tuck the knees toward your chest, rotating your pelvis to lift your glutes from the floor. As you do so, flex the spine, bringing your arms back over your head to perform a simultaneous crunch motion. After a brief pause, return to the starting position.}
{Gorilla Chin/Crunch,strength,abdominals,body_only,beginner,Hang from a chin-up bar using an underhand grip (palms facing you) that is slightly wider than shoulder width. Now bend your knees at a 90 degree angle so that the calves are parallel to the floor while the thighs remain perpendicular to it. This will be your starting position. As you exhale, pull yourself up while crunching your knees up at the same time until your knees are at chest level. You will stop going up as soon as your nose is at the same level as the bar. Tip: When you get to this point you should also be finishing the crunch at the same time. Slowly start to inhale as you return to the starting position. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.  Variations: You can also add resistance by holding a dumbbell or medicine ball between your feet but this should only be done by the most advanced athletes. Alternatively, when you are very advanced you can also try the one-arm version where you grasp your wrist with your free hand and you work the obliques more.}


{Machine Bicep Curl,strength,biceps,machine,beginner,Adjust the seat to the appropriate height and make your weight selection. Place your upper arms against the pads and grasp the handles. This will be your starting position. Perform the movement by flexing the elbow, pulling your lower arm towards your upper arm. Pause at the top of the movement, and then slowly return the weight to the starting position. Avoid returning the weight all the way to the stops until the set is complete to keep tension on the muscles being worked.}
,{Overhead cable curl,strength,biceps,cable,intermediate,To begin, set a weight that is comfortable on each side of the pulley machine. Note: Make sure that the amount of weight selected is the same on each side. Now adjust the height of the pulleys on each side and make sure that they are positioned at a height higher than that of your shoulders. Stand in the middle of both sides and use an underhand grip (palms facing towards the ceiling) to grab each handle. Your arms should be fully extended and parallel to the floor with your feet positioned shoulder width apart from each other. Your body should be evenly aligned the handles. This is the starting position. While exhaling, slowly squeeze the biceps on each side until your forearms and biceps touch. While inhaling, move your forearms back to the starting position. Note: Your entire body is stationary during this exercise except for the forearms. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions prescribed in your program.  Variations: This exercise can also be performed using one handle at a time.}
,{Dumbbell Bicep Curl,strength,biceps,dumbbell,intermediate,Stand up straight with a dumbbell in each hand at arm's length. Keep your elbows close to your torso and rotate the palms of your hands until they are facing forward. This will be your starting position. Now, keeping the upper arms stationary, exhale and curl the weights while contracting your biceps. Continue to raise the weights until your biceps are fully contracted and the dumbbells are at shoulder level. Hold the contracted position for a brief pause as you squeeze your biceps. Then, inhale and slowly begin to lower the dumbbells back to the starting position. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.  Variations: There are many possible variations for this movement. For instance, you can perform the exercise sitting down on a bench with or without back support and you can also perform it by alternating arms; first lift the right arm for one repetition, then the left, then the right, etc. You can also do the exercise starting with both palms of the hands facing the torso and then rotating forward as the movement is performed. At the top of the movement the palms should face forward and the small finger should be higher than the thumb for a peak contraction.}
,{Close-grip EZ-bar curl,strength,biceps,barbell,beginner,Stand up with your torso upright while holding an E-Z Curl Bar at the closer inner handle. The palm of your hands should be facing forward and they should be slightly tilted inwards due to the shape of the bar. The elbows should be close to the torso. This will be your starting position. While holding the upper arms stationary, curl the weights forward while contracting the biceps as you breathe out. Tip: Only the forearms should move. Continue the movement until your biceps are fully contracted and the bar is at shoulder level. Hold the contracted position for a second and squeeze the biceps hard. Slowly begin to bring the bar back to starting position as your breathe in. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.  Variations:  You can also perform this movement using an E-Z attachment hooked to a low pulley. This variation seems to really provide a good contraction at the top of the movement. You may also use the wider grip for variety purposes.}
,{Cross-body hammer curl,strength,biceps,dumbbell,beginner,Stand up straight with a dumbbell in each hand. Your hands should be down at your side with your palms facing in. While keeping your palms facing in and without twisting your arm, curl the dumbbell of the right arm up towards your left shoulder as you exhale. Touch the top of the dumbbell to your shoulder and hold the contraction for a second. Slowly lower the dumbbell along the same path as you inhale and then repeat the same movement for the left arm. Continue alternating in this fashion until the recommended amount of repetitions is performed for each arm.  Variations: You can also perform this exercise in between two pulleys using the end of a rope attachment on each arm.}
,{Preacher Curl,strength,biceps,barbell,intermediate,To perform this movement you will need a preacher bench and an E-Z bar. Grab the E-Z curl bar at the close inner handle (either have someone hand you the bar which is preferable or grab the bar from the front bar rest provided by most preacher benches). The palm of your hands should be facing forward and they should be slightly tilted inwards due to the shape of the bar. With the upper arms positioned against the preacher bench pad and the chest against it, hold the E-Z Curl Bar at shoulder length. This will be your starting position. As you breathe in, slowly lower the bar until your upper arm is extended and the biceps is fully stretched. As you exhale, use the biceps to curl the weight up until your biceps is fully contracted and the bar is at shoulder height. Squeeze the biceps hard and hold this position for a second. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.  Variations: You can perform this exercise also using a low pulley with an E-Z Bar attachment instead. In this case you will need to position the bench in front of the pulley. You may also use a wider grip for variety purposes.}
,{Barbell Curls Lying Against An Incline,strength,biceps,barbell,beginner,Lie against an incline bench, with your arms holding a barbell and hanging down in a horizontal line. This will be your starting position. While keeping the upper arms stationary, curl the weight up as high as you can while squeezing the biceps. Breathe out as you perform this portion of the movement. Tip: Only the forearms should move. Do not swing the arms. After a second contraction, slowly go back to the starting position as you inhale. Tip: Make sure that you go all of the way down. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.  Variations: You can perform this exercise using an E-Z bar or dumbbells.}
,{Seated Close-Grip Concentration Barbell Curl,strength,biceps,barbell,beginner,Sit down on a flat bench with a barbell or E-Z Bar in front of you in between your legs. Your legs should be spread with the knees bent and the feet on the floor. Use your arms to pick the barbell up and place the back of your upper arms on top of your inner thighs (around three and a half inches away from the front of the knee). A supinated grip closer than shoulder width is needed to perform this exercise. Tip: Your arm should be extended at arms length and the barbell should be above the floor. This will be your starting position. While holding the upper arms stationary, curl the weights forward while contracting the biceps as you breathe out. Only the forearms should move. Continue the movement until your biceps are fully contracted and the dumbbells are at shoulder level. Hold the contracted position for a second as you squeeze the biceps. Slowly begin to bring the barbell back to starting position as your breathe in. Tip: Avoid swinging motions at any time. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.  Variations: This exercise can be performed standing with the torso bent forward and the arm in front of you. In this case, no leg support is used for the back of your arm so you will need to make extra effort to ensure no movement of the upper arms. This is a more challenging version of the exercise and is not recommended for people with lower back issues. You can also perform as described here but without using a bench. So for this version you will be kneeling and the weight of the barbell will help to balance you.}
,{Reverse Barbell Preacher Curls,strength,biceps,e-z_curl_bar,beginner,Grab an EZ-bar using a shoulder width and palms down (pronated) grip. Now place the upper part of both arms on top of the preacher bench and have your arms extended. This will be your starting position. As you exhale, use the biceps to curl the weight up until your biceps are fully contracted and the barbell is at shoulder height. Squeeze the biceps hard for a second at the contracted position. As you breathe in, slowly lower the barbell until your upper arms are extended and the biceps is fully stretched. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.  Variations:  This exercise can be performed using an e-z bar, cables or dumbbells.}
,{Standing One-Arm Cable Curl,strength,biceps,cable,beginner,Start out by grabbing single handle next to the low pulley machine. Make sure you are far enough from the machine so that your arm is supporting the weight. Make sure that your upper arm is stationary, perpendicular to the floor with elbows in and palms facing forward. Your non lifting arm should be grabbing your waist. This will allow you to keep your balance. Slowly begin to curl the single handle upwards while keeping the upper arm stationary until your forearm touches your bicep while exhaling. Tip: Only the forearm should move. Hold the contraction position as you squeeze the bicep and then lower the single handle back down to the starting position as you inhale. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions. Switch arms while performing this exercise.}


{Incline cable chest fly,strength,chest,cable,intermediate,To get yourself into the starting position, set the pulleys at the floor level (lowest level possible on the machine that is below your torso). Place an incline bench (set at 45 degrees) in between the pulleys, select a weight on each one and grab a pulley on each hand. With a handle on each hand, lie on the incline bench and bring your hands together at arms length in front of your face. This will be your starting position. With a slight bend of your elbows (in order to prevent stress at the biceps tendon), lower your arms out at both sides in a wide arc until you feel a stretch on your chest. Breathe in as you perform this portion of the movement. Tip: Keep in mind that throughout the movement, the arms should remain stationary. The movement should only occur at the shoulder joint. Return your arms back to the starting position as you squeeze your chest muscles and exhale. Hold the contracted position for a second. Tip: Make sure to use the same arc of motion used to lower the weights. Repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions.  Variation: You can vary the angle of the bench in order to target the upper chest at slightly different angles.}
,{Decline barbell bench press,strength,chest,barbell,intermediate,Secure your legs at the end of the decline bench and slowly lay down on the bench. Using a medium width grip (a grip that creates a 90-degree angle in the middle of the movement between the forearms and the upper arms), lift the bar from the rack and hold it straight over you with your arms locked. The arms should be perpendicular to the floor. This will be your starting position. Tip: In order to protect your rotator cuff, it is best if you have a spotter help you lift the barbell off the rack. As you breathe in, come down slowly until you feel the bar on your lower chest. After a second pause, bring the bar back to the starting position as you breathe out and push the bar using your chest muscles. Lock your arms and squeeze your chest in the contracted position, hold for a second and then start coming down slowly again. Tip: It should take at least twice as long to go down than to come up). Repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions. When you are done, place the bar back in the rack.  Caution:  If you are new at this exercise, it is advised that you use a spotter. If no spotter is available, then be conservative with the amount of weight used. Also, beware of letting the bar drift too far forward. You want the bar to touch your lower chest and nowhere else. Don't bounce the weight off your chest. You should be in full control of the barbell at all times.  Variations: You can also use dumbbells or exercise bands to perform this exercise.}
,{Wide-grip bench press,strength,chest,barbell,beginner,Lie back on a flat bench with feet firm on the floor. Using a wide, pronated (palms forward) grip that is around 3 inches away from shoulder width (for each hand), lift the bar from the rack and hold it straight over you with your arms locked. The bar will be perpendicular to the torso and the floor. This will be your starting position. As you breathe in, come down slowly until you feel the bar on your middle chest. After a second pause, bring the bar back to the starting position as you breathe out and push the bar using your chest muscles. Lock your arms and squeeze your chest in the contracted position, hold for a second and then start coming down slowly again. Tip: It should take at least twice as long to go down than to come up. Repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions.  Caution:  If you are new at this exercise, it is advised that you use a spotter. If no spotter is available, then be conservative with the amount of weight used. Also, beware of letting the bar drift too far forward. You want the bar to fall on your middle chest and nowhere else. Don't bounce the weight off your chest. You should be in full control of the barbell at all times.  Variations: You can use dumbbells for this exercise as well as exercise bands. Same as the Barbell Bench Press but with a different grip.}
,{Wide-Grip Decline Barbell Bench Press,strength,chest,barbell,beginner,Lie back on a decline bench with the feet securely locked at the front of the bench. Using a wide, pronated (palms forward) grip that is around 3 inches away from shoulder width (for each hand), lift the bar from the rack and hold it straight over you with your arms locked. The bar will be perpendicular to the torso and the floor. This will be your starting position. As you breathe in, come down slowly until you feel the bar on your lower chest. After a second pause, bring the bar back to the starting position as you breathe out and push the bar using your chest muscles. Lock your arms and squeeze your chest in the contracted position, hold for a second and then start coming down slowly again. Tip: It should take at least twice as long to go down than to come up. Repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions.  Caution:  If you are new at this exercise, it is advised that you use a spotter. If no spotter is available, then be conservative with the amount of weight used. Also, beware of letting the bar drift too far forward. You want the bar to fall on your middle chest and nowhere else. Don't bounce the weight off your chest. You should be in full control of the barbell at all times.  Variations: You can use dumbbells for this exercise as well as exercise bands. Same as the Decline Barbell Bench Press but with a wider grip.}
,{Reverse-grip incline dumbbell bench press,strength,chest,dumbbell,beginner,Lay on an incline bench holding a dumbbell in each hand. Begin with your arms extended above your torso with a supinated grip. Your back should be arched, feet driving through the ground, and lats tight. This will be your starting position. Lower the weights to your chest by flexing the elbows. After a brief pause, return the weights to the starting position by extending the elbows}
,{Cable Crossover,strength,chest,cable,intermediate,To get yourself into the starting position, place the pulleys on a high position (above your head), select the resistance to be used and hold the pulleys in each hand. Step forward in front of an imaginary straight line between both pulleys while pulling your arms together in front of you. Your torso should have a small forward bend from the waist. This will be your starting position. With a slight bend on your elbows in order to prevent stress at the biceps tendon, extend your arms to the side (straight out at both sides) in a wide arc until you feel a stretch on your chest. Breathe in as you perform this portion of the movement. Tip: Keep in mind that throughout the movement, the arms and torso should remain stationary; the movement should only occur at the shoulder joint. Return your arms back to the starting position as you breathe out. Make sure to use the same arc of motion used to lower the weights. Hold for a second at the starting position and repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions.  Variations: You can vary the point in front of you where your arms meet.}
,{Barbell Incline Bench Press Medium-Grip,strength,chest,barbell,intermediate,Load the bar to an appropriate weight for your training. Lay on the bench with your feet flat on the ground, driving through to your hips. Your back should be arched, and your shoulder blades retracted. Take a medium, pronated grip covering the rings on the bar. Remove the bar from the rack, holding the weight above your chest with your arms extended. This will be your starting position. Lower the bar to the sternum by flexing the elbows. Maintain control and do not bounce the bar off of your chest. Your lats should stay tight and elbows slightly drawn in. After touching your torso with the bar, extend the elbows to return the bar to the starting position.}
,{Incline Dumbbell Flyes,strength,chest,dumbbell,intermediate,Hold a dumbbell on each hand and lie on an incline bench that is set to an incline angle of no more than 30 degrees. Extend your arms above you with a slight bend at the elbows. Now rotate the wrists so that the palms of your hands are facing you. Tip: The pinky fingers should be next to each other. This will be your starting position. As you breathe in, start to slowly lower the arms to the side while keeping the arms extended and while rotating the wrists until the palms of the hand are facing each other. Tip: At the end of the movement the arms will be by your side with the palms facing the ceiling. As you exhale start to bring the dumbbells back up to the starting position by reversing the motion and rotating the hands so that the pinky fingers are next to each other again. Tip: Keep in mind that the movement will only happen at the shoulder joint and at the wrist. There is no motion that happens at the elbow joint. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.  Variations: You can perform regular flyes and also twisting flyes where your initial position starts with the thumbs facing each other instead of the pinky.}
,{Drop Push,plyometrics,chest,other,beginner,Position low boxes or other platforms 2-3 feet apart. Move to a pushup position between them, supporting yourself by placing your hands on the boxes. With good posture, drop from the platforms by pressing up and moving your hands to shoulder width, cushioning your landing by absorbing the impact through the arm.}
,{Close-grip EZ-bar bench press,strength,chest,e-z_curl_bar,intermediate,Lie on a flat bench with an EZ bar loaded to an appropriate weight. Using a narrow grip lift the bar and hold it straight over your torso with your elbows in. The arms should be perpendicular to the floor. This will be your starting position. Now lower the bar down to your lower chest as you breathe in. Keep the elbows in as you perform this movement. Using the triceps to push the bar back up, press it back to the starting position by extending the elbows as you exhale. Repeat.}


{Triceps Pushdown - Rope Attachment,strength,triceps,None,intermediate,Attach a rope attachment to a high pulley and grab with a neutral grip (palms facing each other). Standing upright with the torso straight and a very small inclination forward, bring the upper arms close to your body and perpendicular to the floor. The forearms should be pointing up towards the pulley as they hold the rope with the palms facing each other. This is your starting position. Using the triceps, bring the rope down as you bring each side of the rope to the side of your thighs. At the end of the movement the arms are fully extended and perpendicular to the floor. The upper arms should always remain stationary next to your torso and only the forearms should move. Exhale as you perform this movement. After holding for a second, at the contracted position, bring the rope slowly up to the starting point. Breathe in as you perform this step. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.  Variations: There are many variations to this movement. For instance you can use an E-Z bar attachment as well as a V-angled bar or straight bar. Same as the Triceps Pushdown except with the rope attachment.}
,{Seated triceps press,strength,triceps,dumbbell,intermediate,Sit down on a bench with back support and grasp a dumbbell with both hands and hold it overhead at arm's length. Tip: a better way is to have somebody hand it to you especially if it is very heavy. The resistance should be resting in the palms of your hands with your thumbs around it. The palm of the hand should be facing inward. This will be your starting position. Keeping your upper arms close to your head (elbows in) and perpendicular to the floor, lower the resistance in a semi-circular motion behind your head until your forearms touch your biceps. Tip: The upper arms should remain stationary and only the forearms should move. Breathe in as you perform this step. Go back to the starting position by using the triceps to raise the dumbbell. Breathe out as you perform this step. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.  Variations:  You can perform this exercise standing as well but this puts strain on your back especially if you are using heavy dumbbells like 95 lbs or so. Another variation is to use an EZ or straight bar instead in which case you will be holding the bar from the inside (around 5 inches between both hands) with the palms facing forward (pronated grip). There is also a bar that has parallel bars inside (often referred to as a triceps blaster) and this can also be used for this exercise. Finally, a low pulley cable with a rope attachment or bar (straight or EZ) attachment at the end can be used for variety purposes as well.}
,{Incline EZ-bar skullcrusher,strength,triceps,barbell,intermediate,Hold a barbell with an overhand grip (palms down) that is a little closer together than shoulder width. Lie back on an incline bench set at any angle between 45-75-degrees. Bring the bar overhead with your arms extended and elbows in. The arms should be in line with the torso above the head. This will be your starting position. Now lower the bar in a semicircular motion behind your head until your forearms touch your biceps. Inhale as you perform this movement. Tip: Keep your upper arms stationary and close to your head at all times. Only the forearms should move. Return to the starting position as you breathe out and you contract the triceps. Hold the contraction for a second. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.  Variations: Can also be done with an e-z bar, with two dumbbells (using a pronated or supinated grip), seated or standing or with two dumbbells and your palms facing in.}
,{Decline Close-Grip Bench To Skull Crusher,strength,triceps,barbell,beginner,Secure your legs at the end of the decline bench and slowly lay down on the bench. Using a close grip (a grip that is slightly less than shoulder width), lift the bar from the rack and hold it straight over you with your arms locked and elbows in. The arms should be perpendicular to the floor. This will be your starting position. Tip: In order to protect your rotator cuff, it is best if you have a spotter help you lift the barbell off the rack. Now lower the bar down to your lower chest as you breathe in. Keep the elbows in as you perform this movement. Using the triceps to push the bar back up, press it back to the starting position as you exhale. As you breathe in and you keep the upper arms stationary, bring the bar down slowly by moving your forearms in a semicircular motion towards you until you feel the bar slightly touch your forehead. Breathe in as you perform this portion of the movement. Lift the bar back to the starting position by contracting the triceps and exhaling. Repeat steps 3-6 until the recommended amount of repetitions is performed.  Variations: You can use an e-z bar or dumbbells to perform this movement. You can also perform it on a flat bench as well.}
,{Tricep Dumbbell Kickback,strength,triceps,dumbbell,intermediate,Start with a dumbbell in each hand and your palms facing your torso. Keep your back straight with a slight bend in the knees and bend forward at the waist. Your torso should be almost parallel to the floor. Make sure to keep your head up. Your upper arms should be close to your torso and parallel to the floor. Your forearms should be pointed towards the floor as you hold the weights. There should be a 90-degree angle formed between your forearm and upper arm. This is your starting position. Now, while keeping your upper arms stationary, exhale and use your triceps to lift the weights until the arm is fully extended. Focus on moving the forearm. After a brief pause at the top contraction, inhale and slowly lower the dumbbells back down to the starting position. Repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions.  Variations: This exercise can be executed also one arm at a time much like the one arm rows are performed. Also, if you like the one arm variety, you can use a low pulley handle instead of a dumbbell for better peak contraction. In this case, the palms should be facing up (supinated grip) as opposed to the torso (neutral grip).}
,{Dip Machine,strength,triceps,cable,intermediate,Sit securely in a dip machine, select the weight and firmly grasp the handles. Now keep your elbows in at your sides in order to place emphasis on the triceps. The elbows should be bent at a 90 degree angle. As you contract the triceps, extend your arms downwards as you exhale. Tip: At the bottom of the movement, focus on keeping a little bend in your arms to keep tension on the triceps muscle. Now slowly let your arms come back up to the starting position as you inhale. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.  Variations: You can perform this exercise on parallel bars or on a triceps dip assist machine.}
,{Standing Dumbbell Triceps Extension,strength,triceps,dumbbell,intermediate,Standing Dumbbell Triceps Extension}
,{Parallel Bar Dip,strength,triceps,body_only,intermediate,Stand between a set of parallel bars. Place a hand on each bar, and then take a small jump to help you get into the starting position with your arms locked out. Begin by flexing the elbow, lowering your body until your arms break 90 degrees. Avoid swinging, and maintain good posture throughout the descent. Reverse the motion by extending the elbow, pushing yourself back up into the starting position. Repeat for the desired number of repetitions.}
,{Ring dip,strength,triceps,body_only,intermediate,Grip a ring in each hand, and then take a small jump to help you get into the starting position with your arms locked out. Begin by flexing the elbow, lowering your body until your arms break 90 degrees. Avoid swinging, and maintain good posture throughout the descent. Reverse the motion by extending the elbow, pushing yourself back up into the starting position. Repeat for the desired number of repetitions.}
,{Double-arm triceps kick-back,strength,triceps,dumbbell,intermediate,With a dumbbell in each hand and the palms facing your torso, bend your knees slightly and bring your torso forward, by bending at the waist, while keeping the back straight until it is almost parallel to the floor. Make sure that you keep the head up. The upper arms should be close to the torso and parallel to the floor while the forearms are pointing towards the floor as the hands hold the weights. Tip: There should be a 90-degree angle between the forearms and the upper arm. This is your starting position. Keeping the upper arms stationary, use the triceps to lift the weights as you exhale until the forearms are parallel to the floor and the whole arms are extended. Like many other arm exercises, only the forearm moves. After a second contraction at the top, slowly lower the dumbbells back to their starting position as you inhale. Repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions.  Variations:  This exercise can be executed also one arm at a time. Also, if you like the one arm variety, you can use a single hand handle or rope attachment instead of a dumbbell for better peak contraction. In this case of the single hand handle, the palms should be facing up as opposed to the torso.}


{Smith Machine Reverse Calf Raises,strength,calves,machine,beginner,Adjust the barbell on the smith machine to fit your height and align a raised platform right under the bar. Stand on the platform with the heels of your feet secured on top of it with the balls of your feet extending off it. Position your toes facing forward with a shoulder width stance. Now, place your shoulders under the barbell while maintaining the foot positioning described and push the barbell up by extending your hips and knees until your torso is standing erect. The knees should be kept with a slight bend; never locked. This will be your starting position. Tip: The barbell on your back is only for balance purposes. Raise the balls of your feet as you breathe out by extending your toes as high as possible and flexing your calf. Ensure that the knee is kept stationary at all times. There should be no bending at any time. Hold the contracted position for a second before you start to go back down. Slowly go back down to the starting position as you breathe in by lowering the balls of your feet and toes. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.  Variations: You can also have someone place a dumbbell in between your feet for resistance. You can also perform this exercise using a doorstep and you can use the sides of the door frame for balance. If you change the position of the platform by putting it forward or backwards, it will emphasize the higher or lower calf. Similarly, the stance you use can affect where it hits; the closer your feet are, the more the sides will be isolated, whereas the further apart your feet are, the more the front tibialis will be targeted.}
,{Dumbbell Seated One-Leg Calf Raise,strength,calves,dumbbell,beginner,Place a block on the floor about 12 inches from a flat bench. Sit on a flat bench and place a dumbbell on your upper left thigh about 3 inches above your knee. Now place the ball of your left foot on the block. This will be your starting position. Raise your toes up as high as possible as you exhale and you contract your calf muscle. Hold the contraction for a second. Slowly return to the starting position, stretching as far down as possible. Repeat for your prescribed number of repetitions and then repeat with the right leg.  Variations: You can perform this exercise also with both legs at the same time as well as using a seated calf raise machine.}
,{Ankle Circles,stretching,calves,none,beginner,Use a sturdy object like a squat rack to hold yourself. Lift the right leg in the air (just around 2 inches from the floor) and perform a circular motion with the big toe. Pretend that you are drawing a big circle with it. Tip: One circle equals 1 repetition. Breathe normally as you perform the movement. When you are done with the right foot, then repeat with the left leg.  Variations: None}
,{Peroneals-SMR,stretching,calves,body_only,intermediate,Lay on your side, supporting your weight on your forearm and on a foam roller placed on the outside of your lower leg. Your upper leg can either be on top of your lower leg, or you can cross it in front of you. This will be your starting position. Raise your hips off of the ground and begin to roll from below the knee to above the ankle on the side of your leg, pausing at points of tension for 10-30 seconds. Repeat on the other leg.}
,{Knee Circles,stretching,calves,body_only,beginner,Stand with your legs together and hands by your waist. Now move your knees in a circular motion as you breathe normally. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.}
,{Calf SMR,stretching,calves,foam_roll,beginner,Begin seated on the floor. Place a foam roller underneath your lower leg. Your other leg can either be crossed over the opposite or be placed on the floor, supporting some of your weight. This will be your starting position. Place your hands to your side or just behind you, and press down to raise your hips off of the floor, placing much of your weight against your calf muscle. Roll from below the knee to above the ankle, pausing at points of tension for 10-30 seconds. Repeat for the other leg.}
,{Standing Gastrocnemius Calf Stretch,stretching,calves,body_only,intermediate,Place your right heel on a step with your knee extended and lean forward to grab your right toe with your right hand. Your left knee should be slightly bent and your back should be straight. Support your weight on your left leg and place your left hand on your left thigh. Pull your right toes toward your knee until you feel a stretch in your calf.}
,{Wall calf stretch,stretching,calves,body_only,intermediate,Stand facing a wall from several feet away. Stagger your stance, placing one foot forward. Lean forward and rest your hands on the wall, keeping your heel, hip and head in a straight line. Attempt to keep your heel on the ground. Hold for 10-20 seconds and then switch sides.}
,{Anterior Tibialis-SMR,stretching,calves,other,beginner,Begin seated on the ground with your legs bent and your feet on the floor. Using a Muscle Roller or a rolling pin, apply pressure to the muscles on the outside of your shins. Work from just below the knee to above the ankle, pausing at points of tension for 10-30 seconds. Repeat on the other leg.}
,{Calf Stretch Elbows Against Wall,stretching,calves,none,beginner,Stand facing a wall from a couple feet away. Lean against the wall, placing your weight on your forearms. Attempt to keep your heels on the ground. Hold for 10-20 seconds. You may move further or closer the wall, making it more or less difficult, respectively.}



{Bent Over Two-Dumbbell Row With Palms In,strength,middle_back,dumbbell,beginner,With a dumbbell in each hand (palms facing each other), bend your knees slightly and bring your torso forward, by bending at the waist, while keeping the back straight until it is almost parallel to the floor. Tip: Make sure that you keep the head up. The weights should hang directly in front of you as your arms hang perpendicular to the floor and your torso. This is your starting position. While keeping the torso stationary, lift the dumbbells to your side as you breathe out, squeezing your shoulder blades together. On the top contracted position, squeeze the back muscles and hold for a second. Slowly lower the weight again to the starting position as you inhale. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.  Caution:  This exercise is not recommended for people with back problems. A Low Pulley Row is a better choice for people with back issues. Ensure perfect form and never round the back as this can cause back injury. Be cautious as well with the weight used; in case of doubt, use less weight rather than more.  Variations: You can perform the same exercise using a low pulley instead with a V-bar or with a barbell.}
,{Upside-down pull-up,strength,middle_back,other,intermediate,Begin by taking a medium to wide grip on a pull-up apparatus with your palms facing away from you. From a hanging position, tuck your knees to your chest, leaning back and getting your legs over your side of the pull-up apparatus. This will be your starting position. Beginning with your arms straight, flex the elbows and retract the shoulder blades to raise your body up until your legs contact the pull-up apparatus. After a brief pause, return to the starting position.}
,{Bent Over Barbell Row,strength,middle_back,barbell,intermediate,Holding a barbell with a pronated grip (palms facing down), bend your knees slightly and bring your torso forward, by bending at the waist, while keeping the back straight until it is almost parallel to the floor. Tip: Make sure that you keep the head up. The barbell should hang directly in front of you as your arms hang perpendicular to the floor and your torso. This is your starting position. Now, while keeping the torso stationary, breathe out and lift the barbell to you. Keep the elbows close to the body and only use the forearms to hold the weight. At the top contracted position, squeeze the back muscles and hold for a brief pause. Then inhale and slowly lower the barbell back to the starting position. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.  Caution: This exercise is not recommended for people with back problems. A Low Pulley Row is a better choice for people with back issues. Also, just like with the bent knee dead-lift, if you have a healthy back, ensure perfect form and never slouch the back forward as this can cause back injury. Be cautious as well with the weight used; in case of doubt, use less weight rather than more. Variations: You can perform the same exercise using a supinated (palms facing you) grip.}
,{Single-arm cable seated row,strength,middle_back,cable,intermediate,To get into the starting position, first sit down on the machine and place your feet on the front platform or crossbar provided making sure that your knees are slightly bent and not locked. Lean over as you keep the natural alignment of your back and grab the single handle attachment with your left arm using a palms-down grip. With your arm extended pull back until your torso is at a 90-degree angle from your legs. Your back should be slightly arched and your chest should be sticking out. You should be feeling a nice stretch on your lat as you hold the bar in front of you. The right arm can be kept by the waist. This is the starting position of the exercise. Keeping the torso stationary, pull the handles back towards your torso while keeping the arms close to it as you rotate the wrist, so that by the time your hand is by your abdominals it is in a neutral position (palms facing the torso). Breathe out as you perform that movement. At that point you should be squeezing your back muscles hard. Hold that contraction for a second and slowly go back to the original position while breathing in. Tip: Remember to rotate the wrist as you go back to the starting position so that the palms are facing down again. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions and then perform the same movement with the right hand.  Variations: You can perform this movement with a high pulley as well and standing up. You can also perform it doing a full rotation of the wrist. In other words, at the starting position you will have the palms of the hands facing down and at the end of the movement they will be facing up. Great movement to perform for a variety of purposes.}
,{Kettlebell alternating renegade row,strength,middle_back,kettlebells,intermediate,Place two kettlebells on the floor about shoulder width apart. Position yourself on your toes and your hands as though you were doing a pushup, with the body straight and extended. Use the handles of the kettlebells to support your upper body. You may need to position your feet wide for support. Push one kettlebell into the floor and row the other kettlebell, retracting the shoulder blade of the working side as you flex the elbow, pulling it to your side. Then lower the kettlebell to the floor and begin the kettlebell in the opposite hand. Repeat for several reps.}
,{Man-maker,strength,middle_back,dumbbell,intermediate,Position a pair of light-weight dumbbells in front of you, parallel to each other. Keeping your back flat, bend forward and squat down, grasping the dumbbells. This is your start position. Initiate the movement by kicking one leg back, then the other so that you’re in the push-up position, holding onto the dumbbells. Your weight should be on your toes and hands. Do a one-arm row for each side, bringing your elbow up as high as you can. Hop your feet forward and rise up by cleaning the weights, bringing them up to shoulder level, palms facing forward as you hop a second time. Descend into a squat and explosively rise up, then press the weights overhead to full arm extension. Lower the dumbbells back to your shoulders, then bend over as you squat down to return the weights back to the floor in front of you. Repeat for reps.}
,{Dumbbell bent-over row,strength,middle_back,dumbbell,intermediate,With a dumbbell in each hand (palms facing your torso), bend your knees slightly and bring your torso forward by bending at the waist; as you bend make sure to keep your back straight until it is almost parallel to the floor. Tip: Make sure that you keep the head up. The weights should hang directly in front of you as your arms hang perpendicular to the floor and your torso. This is your starting position. While keeping the torso stationary, lift the dumbbells to your side (as you breathe out), keeping the elbows close to the body (do not exert any force with the forearm other than holding the weights). On the top contracted position, squeeze the back muscles and hold for a second. Slowly lower the weight again to the starting position as you inhale. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.  Caution:  This exercise is not recommended for people with back problems. A Low Pulley Row is a better choice for people with back issues. Ensure perfect form and never round the back as this can promote back injury. Be cautious with the weight used; in case of doubt, use less weight rather than more.  Variations: You can perform the same exercise using a low pulley instead with a v-bar or with a barbell. This exercise can also be performed with supinated or neutral grips.}
,{Middle Back Shrug,strength,middle_back,dumbbell,beginner,Lie facedown on an incline bench while holding a dumbbell in each hand. Your arms should be fully extended hanging down and pointing towards the floor. The palms of your hands should be facing each other. This will be your starting position. As you exhale, squeeze your shoulder blades together and hold the contraction for a full second. Tip: This movement is just like the reverse action of a hug, or trying to perform rear laterals as if you had no arms. As you inhale go back to the starting position. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.}
,{Yates Row Reverse Grip,strength,middle_back,barbell,beginner,Hold a barbell with a supinated grip a bit more than shoulder-width apart. Keep your feet hip-width apart and your knees slightly bent. Bend forward at the waist slightly, and keep your back straight and your chest up. This will be your starting position. Pull the barbell to your torso by flexing the elbow and retracting the shoulder blades. Avoid jerking the weight backward by extending your back or hips. Reverse the motion to return the weight to the starting position.}
,{Smith machine inverted row,strength,middle_back,other,intermediate,Position a bar in a rack to about waist height. You can also use a smith machine. Take a wider than shoulder width grip on the bar and position yourself hanging underneath the bar. Your body should be straight with your heels on the ground with your arms fully extended. This will be your starting position. Begin by flexing the elbow, pulling your chest towards the bar. Retract your shoulder blades as you perform the movement. Pause at the top of the motion, and return yourself to the start position. Repeat for the desired number of repetitions.}
